We turned the tape over about interviewing governors.
First of all, did you ever deal with John Connolly?
No.
You didn't?
Dolph Briscoe, I guess, was the first governor that I interviewed.
Who was your favorite of all the governors?
uh they were all good interviews and actually uh uh Dolph Brisco was the most friendly and and charming as far as putting me at ease and being welcoming of me and my cameraman
and making time and giving plenty of time and in his personal office.
The others were usually on site in conjunction to an event and probably didn't have as much control of the circumstances and giving as much time.
I think probably it's because since I was young and learning as I went, it meant a lot to be befriended.
And actually there was a lot of turmoil in the Bryan College Station community at the time.
And a lot of rancor between city officials.
And they would take it out on the reporters.
And I would have them say they'd wring my neck or they'd slit my throat.
You'd get some comments like that.
Literally, did you as a reporter hear?
Oh, yes.
I was personally directed at me.
But not at the state level.
And at the time, we had...
Bill Moore, you know, the bull of the Brazos as the senior state senator, and Bill Presnell.
So Bryan College Station, Brazos County were, you know, hotbeds of political power.
So it gave me the opportunity to interview some of the state level people, but then our own local officials were very well known.
Let's zero in on Moore and Presnell because they were so important to A&M in the 70s.
Describe your impressions of each of them.
Well, I think, you know, their reputation preceded them.
I didn't know them personally, and they lived up to their reputation.
How did Bill Moore live up to Bull of the Brazos?
Well, he was just very forthright, very outspoken, very assured of himself.
I don't even remember the topic of the interviews right now and some of the issues, but he was very supportive of his family.
And his son was up and coming as an attorney then at the time, and so they were just a force to be contended with.
They're very strong in the community.
And Presnell, I believe, was chair of the Appropriations Committee, if I recall correctly.
So there was quite a bit of deference, you know, in the community to them both.
and so I thought that you know
despite the diplomacy that they had to be careful of, that they were always very forthright with us.
Bill Moore had been in the Senate a long time, and when I was on the Aspirations Committee that recommended co-education and non-compulsory core and racial integration, he was a very potent, potent, potent supporter of all of those.
And I suspect that if he had not been, we might not have had those.
Now, I don't mean he was the only one, but if he had joined some of the other potent opponents, we might not have been.
But he particularly was strong for coeducation.
Well, there were different transitions taking place.
You know, Olin Teague had passed, and there was an election that pitted Phil Graham.
Oh, gosh, no.
His name escapes me.
He's in Waco.
He's a congressman now.
Chet Edwards.
Chet Edwards, yes.
Were you a reporter during that time?
Yes, I interviewed Chet Edwards, Phil Graham.
Share any recollection of that, because that's the Democratic primary.
Right.
And the...
And there was someone else.
Everyone knew that the TV weatherman from 4th Dallas would lead the first primary.
So the big thing was to make the runoff.
And so they were really running for second place.
They knew he was going to lead, but that he probably couldn't win the runoff.
Well, you know, this was just a trial by fire for me because it was very interesting.
I realize now in hindsight what an interesting time, period of time that it was.
But I didn't have the context and the background of knowing all of these people.
But there was a runoff.
Chet Edwards did not make the runoff.
He was very young.
He was a bachelor.
Less than 150 votes.
He lost to Graham less than 150 votes.
On the margin, right.
No, he did make the runoff.
That's right.
The runoff was between Edwards and Graham, wasn't it?
No, no.
It wasn't.
It was between Graham and the TV.
And he barely didn't make the runoff.
And then he went on to become a state representative before running for Congress again.
That's right.
And there was some politics at the time because I don't think the Teague family endorsed anyone in particular.
And that was sought after.
Graham was a professor still, I believe, but I interviewed not the weatherman, but Graham and Edwards, and they were both very dynamic.
You know, I just have personal anecdotes about Graham, the kinds of things that form a personal opinion versus a professional, and Graham could be very testy, and he could very easily pick up the phone and complain.
at the station to us, and there were a couple of incidents of that.
So, you know, he's very competent, you know, in terms of a politician and the work that he does now, but there are some of those personal
Things that taint a little bit when you feel like someone has been unduly irate.
O.D.
Butler was suing the school district.
So that was something that was going on.
As a property owner, he headed up a property owners association and he, of course, went on.
to become a vice or associate chancellor for agriculture.
And we used to call him Overdose Butler for OD because he was, you know, such a personality.
There were a lot of interesting personalities.
Let's see some questions about some A&M people.
John Colas was the new Vice President for Student Services, I think we called it.
Describe your impressions of him in those years.
I don't recall.
I don't believe I had any interaction or followed too much.
I had, before they
did away with a separate dean of women and dean of men.
I'd had some interaction with the dean of women because I got in trouble.
And so they called me and my roommate in and gave us a little talking to.
Who was the dean of women then?
No, I don't remember her name.
I don't remember either.
Oh, gosh.
She had a name changed.
Toby something.
It seems to come to mind, and there was a name change at some point, but I believe she was the dean of women, and so she had to have her secretary call me at my apartment and make an appointment for me and my roommate to come in to see her for a little disciplinary action.
We had split.
I had been persuaded.
I had purchased my own shuttle bus pass, and then I was persuaded to cut it in half and share it with my roommate so that we could each have a half sticking out of our book as we got on and off the shuttle.
And one of the halves fell out with identifying information.
And so we got called in on that.
What kind of punishment did she threaten you with?
Well, this was going on our records, and it wouldn't be on our records for a year as long as we were on good behavior, you know, for another year.
So after a year elapsed, you know, my roommate couldn't have cared less and kind of forgotten, but I was quite nervous.
I wanted to make sure that that had, in fact, been removed from my records, so I went in to pursue it.
No one had any recollection of it and couldn't find any record of it, so it didn't look like they'd ever even made an entry, but I double-checked that.
As you think back on it, do you think she handled it appropriately?
Yes, you know, very much so.
She could tell we didn't need too much of a talking, you know, and that there's, you don't get anything for free, and of course, then we had to buy new passes, you know, at mid-semester, and so she, yes, she was appropriately serious, but not, you know, overly intimidating, and we minded our P's and Q's.
Let's zero in on Dr. Williams, because I particularly want to get your recollections.
Do you remember your first impressions of President Williams?
You know, just from afar.
I knew that he was the president.
You know, I would see him walking on campus.
He was very approachable, very likable, and I felt very comfortable in being able to nod.
I knew he didn't know who I was, and, you know, I could nod or speak or hello, and he was always meeting eyes, you know, on the campus.
He didn't look like he was averting his gaze to hurry on.
So I appreciated that.
And then when I became a reporter,
we would cover Board of Regents meetings and just sit in attendance but not actually have an individual interaction with him because there was a, Lane Stevenson served as the community liaison and he was actually on the city council if we had questions.
So I was a little bit insulated as a reporter until he had a heart attack and I covered his transfer and treatment.
Were you aware of what most of the student's nickname was for Dr. Williams?
Smiling Jack, I do believe.
Did you think it was appropriate?
Yes, yes, you know, that's what you thought.
You know, he was always smiling.
I'm very biased over on him.
I loved Jack Williams, and I don't use that word about many people outside my own family.
He's one of the most marvelous people I've ever known.
You mentioned to me before we turned on the tape that you had some interaction at the time of his illness.
Were you aware before his heart attack that his health was declining?
Were you as a reporter aware of any decline in his health?
I do remember being aware.
I don't remember how I had that awareness that as a reporter, in the capacity of a reporter, I don't believe because of any battalion coverage or awareness as a student, but something in the course of the newsroom where we had an awareness that he had a heart condition.
But then we had a scanner.
in the newsroom and someone had the news that he had had a heart attack and that an ambulance had been called to the president's home.
That was late at night, I believe, or definitely after dark.
And I was not involved in going out to his home.
We did get, I did receive comments from the ambulance operator afterward, the ambulance driver who transported him.
and the ambulance crew arrived and said that he was not being resuscitated.
Another doctor
had arrived and was on hand but was said not to be actively resuscitating Dr. Williams at the time that it seemed that he had died.
But the ambulance crew, as a matter of course, started resuscitation and apparently managed to revive Dr. Williams or at the hospital.
He was revived, and now I do not remember if the transfer occurred that very night.
Possibly not.
It might have been the next night.
They might have held him for 24 hours, or maybe it was the same night.
I remember the heart attack being at night, and I remember the helicopter transfer being at night.
Possibly it was the same night.
But I took up where I...
joined the action, so to speak, was to take up a position at the hospital.
And I was waiting for the arrival of the helicopter.
The St.
Joseph Hospital was at its current location on 29th Street.
They had a small helicopter pad
concrete pad, but it was not enhanced as it is now with lights.
Now it's replaced by a modern pad, but it was a concrete pad with no lights.
So the police and fire trucks, the vehicles were out there with their lights on, their flashing lights on to try and give a reference point for the helicopter pilot.
The pilot was reputed not to have made a trip to college to Bryan before and was late.
He did not arrive on time.
They said he was circling.
So the lights helped him pinpoint St.
Joseph.
He landed and then I waited.
for Dr. Williams to be wheeled out.
A nurse came out and told me that the family did not want any film footage, but I knew that that was my assignment, you know, that I'd better attempt to get some film footage, and so I did position myself
in hopes of getting film footage and then as I as he was wheeled out nurses and Mrs. Williams were accompanying him and the nurses you know did
try to position themselves to block my way.
I did roll some footage.
It was film at the time with just an attached spotlight.
And I didn't get anything that really developed to be beyond, you know, show anything more than shadows.
So I decided to give up that position and I walked on out to the helicopter pad.
but felt intimidated about getting too close.
I did turn on my spotlight and try a couple of angles for footage and then stopped really feeling like that was not working out.
But apparently, even as far as I was, the light was helping.
And so one of the attendants, someone came up and said, would I mind coming closer to the helicopter and turning the spotlight of my camera back on because that had been helpful.
And it took quite a while to get Dr. Williams situated, to get the different IVs and lines.
And it was very crowded, cramped.
I was impressed by that.
It was very dark in the cabin of the helicopter.
And so I did approach and stand very close to use my spotlight and have someone call back to the TV station to send one of my coworkers with more batteries for the spotlight should the batteries fail on it.
But we managed to get by with one battery pack by the time they had him ready to transfer.
But I ended up standing right there at the...
What would your recollection be of the approximate time the helicopter was on the ground?
You know, I started to say 30 minutes.
As far as the amount of time to transfer Dr. Williams into the helicopter and to stabilize
the connections and the monitors for his transfer.
There was quite a bit of time waiting for the helicopter, and then after it landed, before they brought Dr. Williams out, but actually having him in the helicopter seemed a good 30 minutes.
I can't be sure of that.
As far as you were aware, was he conscious at the time?
It didn't seem to me that he was.
Now, Williams have two daughters.
One about your age and one younger.
Did you by chance encounter either of them there?
I don't recall that they were there.
I definitely recall Mrs. Williams, and she did emanate what I might have perceived as hostility, but also she would obviously have been very nervous and very concerned.
But she did have a strong sense of privacy.
She did not handle any of our follow-up calls, inquiring about his condition, asking for comments from the family.
And it was not until after he was back in College Station on the job at A&M
that we were on record with a standing request to speak to him and interview him, and he personally called and invited Channel 3 to interview him.
And I don't recall now if he specifically asked me or if I just happened to, for me, or if I happened to get the assignment.
For some reason or another, I think he asked for me.
I don't know if he had an awareness that I was the one that had covered
Oh, summarize that.
The departure.
Please summarize that.
Well, we just interviewed him.
About what?
He wanted to thank the community for their prayers and good wishes.
He thanked his family.
He thanked us for giving him the opportunity to express this to the community, and he was just very warm and very assuring that he felt well and was back on the job
doing the full job and just very reassuring.
Did he by chance show you his scar?
No, no.
When my wife and I were first invited back to their house, just the two of us one night for supper, we hadn't been in more than five minutes when he said, would you like to see the damage?
And he unbuttoned his shirt, and here was a scar that looked to me like it was from his neck down almost to his navel, just as if the whole chest had been opened up.
He had a personal way of remembering who did what.
And so that's just speculation.
I'm surmising that he might have remembered I was involved in the coverage of his heart attack and what ensued.
And so then I personally was glad to be able to wrap the story, so to speak, and interview him when he returned.
Let's see, you were a junior at this time academically.
This is your third year at A&M, 75, 76.
Did he have his heart attack in 77?
I started working my sophomore year in 76, so it had to be between 76 and 78.
Well, he has the heart attack in the spring of 76.
because the centennial year is obscured.
I was still fairly new on the job then.
That was my sophomore year.
He's back either late that summer or early that fall.
That was one of my early experiences then.
which actually begins to ring true because by the time I left, I had a pretty thick skin.
But I do remember being more sensitive because after he was transported, I wrote a story.
Grew eventually to deliver all my stories, but at this time I wrote the story for the anchor, and he delivered the story.
He read the story, but I did a script reporting on the transfer, but then commenting, editorializing that
that the hospital or the community ought to do whatever was necessary to equip the helicopter pad with lights.
What would happen if it were just you or me having to be transferred at night and not having a reporter available with a spotlight?
to shine on the location.
So I did add some editorial comments.
And the Lions Club, I believe it was the College Station Lions Club, had been involved in the fundraising to have a helicopter pad installed at St.
Joseph.
It was a donation.
And they and St.
Joseph Hospital officials took great offense as though there had been negligence on their part.
And I explained to them in person, because they presented themselves in person to complain, that I did not mean to infer negligence on their part, but that it was not a finished job, that something needed to be done as urgently
as quickly as possible so that everyone would have the benefit of a safe night transfer.
Did you have any interaction later with Mrs. Williams?
No.
Just Dr. Williams.
And after that thank you session, were there other encounters with him that you remember?
No.
I looked through my files, and I happened to save some of my old scripts from Channel 3.
Not all of them.
I think at the time I saved the ones that had most to do with city and school district news for the record.
I mentioned some of the turmoil.
Well, the students were involved from Texas A&M in fighting the City of College Station.
And so I think that Dr. Williams stayed out of that.
And so some of my other Texas A&M coverage had to do with the student body and not Dr. Williams.
The controversy
had to do with a ward system for elections and the students had been instrumental in supporting award sections so that they could have a student vote, that otherwise their vote was diluted in at-large elections and they would have difficulty in getting a student on the city council.
Somehow or another, I didn't get in on the very beginning of the story, there was an election, a charter
revision election, the ward system passed, which was good news to the students.
But the city council did not support and had hoped that it would not pass
Shortly after the election, they found grounds to contest the election.
And the students filed a restraining order against the city to prevent them from contesting.
It did go on to be contested, but it required some kind of hearing and the city lost its case.
because of the student involvement on that and so they had to wait the full legal mandate of two years before an election can be revisited.
So a full two years after the original election, a second election was held and at that time the ward system failed and the at-large system was reinstituted.
So for a two-year period, the students, you know, were very active in city issues.
And so I pulled some of those stories to have reference to that.
But you know what, I just collectively referred to students and didn't have a name of a specific student.
Who were the key student leaders that you recall during your undergraduate years?
You know, the names have, I've lost them over time.
I remember the atmosphere of elections and all of the election signs and posters, but Fred McClure is the one name that I recall.
Describe Fred McClure as a student leader.
You know, very charismatic.
I happen to know people
at the time who knew him because of his involvement in the Future Farmers of America.
And they had known him personally and spoke highly of him and always felt
just charmed, you know, that he never forgot them.
When he became student body president and obviously looked destined for a bright future, they always enjoyed that he remembered their names and would speak to them and didn't forget his FFA roots.
And he was just an outstanding spokesperson.
For you and your fellow students, did it matter at all that he was African-American in terms of what your impression of him?
No, and, you know, I know that these prejudices exist, and there were a lot of things that existed in my time at college, whether it was prejudice or drugs or whatever, and I had the good fortune
to not run across them, but I think that that could not have been too unusual.
You know, I think if it had been prevalent, you know, that at some point in time, you know, I would have heard or been aware of that.
Like when I first became acquainted with Fred, I think he was a freshman, and I was stunned to learn that he was Republican in his party favoritism.
And I asked him, why wasn't he a Democrat?
He quickly squeezed a little bit of his skin on the back of his hand, and he said, look at that, and I did.
What about that?
And he said, that's a rare commodity in the Republican Party.
And he said, when the Republicans win, I'm going to be in high demand.
Oh, no.
Well, as we are speaking today in early 19, the year 2000, there is a rumor circulating very, very far underneath the surface that if George W. Bush is the new president of the United States, Fred McClure may be his chief of staff, which would be good for all of us.
Did you, as a reporter, did you have much interaction with the student leadership on campus?
Did you cover them very often?
No, we didn't cover the Student Senate or anything like that.
Usually our coverage of A&M was with the Board of Regents or special events, you know, doing a story at Bonfire.
And the Bonfire was in the news, and the City Council was trying to have it moved, and that was always a perennial
College Station request was to have it moved to a different site.
That's when it was on the other side of the Duncan Dining Hall.
And the embers would disperse over the residential area there.
Did you go to Bonfire each year, you think, as a student?
Probably.
Did you work on Bonfire at all?
No, I did not.
Did any of your female friends?
No.
They baked cookies, but there was not a hands-on involvement.
Did you think of bonfire being at all dangerous when you were a student?